# Journal Entry 1

Everyday I use my Breville espresso machine to make a cup of coffee. The machine is not automatic, requiring some manual effort to accurately pull a shot of espresso. I have to grind the beans myself, fill the portafilter, tamp the grounds, lock the filter in place, wait for the machine to calibrate, and press a button each time I want to pull a shot. 

The machine itself has one dial, two buttons, and an apparent handle for the portafilter.  So with only four really obvious components, it seems like pulling a good shot should be simple. However, I have come to recognize this process is not as simple as it seems as the machine itself provides very few **affordances** to me as a user, which refer to physical hints found in the design of something that convey how it should be utilized. The portafilter, for example, has a handle and appears to twist as a result, but there is no indication on how far to twist it.  It's also true that there's no clear indication regarding what twist the dial does except for some small icons.  Luckily, there are quite a few sources of feedback throughout the process of pulling a shot that indicate success which I have come to recognize. 

The first step in pulling a shot of espresso is to twist the portafilter from the machine using the handle and fill it with ground espresso.  Next, I use the tamp to ensure the grounds are compact and smooth inside the filter.  While these first two steps are very important as too many or too little grounds can lead to bad espresso shots, the machine doesn’t afford me any means of error prevention.  Essentially, the design itself does not support me in preventing mistakes as much as it could because there's no indication on how high I should fill the filter.  However, assuming I have chosen the correct amount, I then twist the filter back into place from an angle.  In this step, it's possible to twist it too far, which I have learned leads to poorly filtered shots.  It's important to stop when the handle is perfectly adjacent to the machine and essentially line up with the word “LOCK”.

Next, I address the issue that is the dial and two buttons.  The button on the left clearly states “POWER”, so I push that one first.  It lights up; I know the machine is on because of this feedback.  Now I need to pull a shot, so I twist the dial to point to the little coffee icon on the left.  The machine makes a lot of noise, but doesn’t immediately pull shots. Espresso is not actually ready to pull until an identical feedback light emits from the second “SELECT” button.  After a lot more noise, espresso inevitably begins to drip from the filter.  Another issue stems from this step as the machine pulls some undistinguishable amount of espresso.  If I want only a single shot, I have to stop the machine at the point 60 ml of liquid have been pulled.  In any case, I have successfully pulled espresso shots for a cup of coffee. 

If the shots appear and taste as a good shot should, I am satisfied by the process. However, the machine clearly lacks learnability, which refers to how easy it is for new users to understand and operate the system. Once or twice a week I end up with espresso that is either under or over extracted, which shows how difficult it can be to achieve reliable performance without some clearer affordances.

Moreover, it's a good thing I like my shots over ice, because utilizing the steam wand to prepare hot milk is even harder than pulling a shot as the process does not match my mental model.  This term refers to what I expect to happen as a user versus what actually does and is applicable here because I would expect a steam wand to be controlled by a dial or the very least a switch, but this one is controlled by a button.  There's also no temperature gauge so it presumably stops automatically when it reaches a certain degree.  The two options “STEAM” and “HOT WATER” can be selected by pushing the left “SELECT” button which makes sense.  I learned the hard way that hot water literally just sprays hot water everywhere which is supposed to be used after steaming milk to release the heat. Fortunately, selecting steam does as expected as long as I have placed a pitcher of milk on the wand.

In proposing some means of redesign, I would aim to increase the machine’s learnability in order to make it clearer what is actually required of me as a user.  A third button to pull shots instead of using the dial would be helpful, and perhaps no dial at all because there are only two options on said dial which seems like a waste of space.  It could instead be used to control the steam wand or a switch control could be implemented.  Even with these design limitations in mind, the Breville espresso machine gets the job done and allows me to prepare shots of espresso as needed. 
